We have decided to project our
data layers into the projection
WGS 1984 UTM Zone 29 N, so let's
start by projecting the sighting
points.
We're going to be using the
Geoprocessing Toolbox to find a
tool to do this.
So we can go into the Analysis
tab at the top and click on the
Tools button to open up our
toolbox.
And now we can search in
Project.
So we can see that we've had
lots of tools come up that all
say Project on them.
So what is the right tool to
use?
We've got a tool that's called
Project.
We've got one that's called
Project Raster for projecting
raster data layers.
We've got Batch Project, which
lets you project several layers
at the same time.
We've got Package Project, which
isn't a projection tool, that's
just for packaging up our Arcgis
Pro project.
And then we have Define
Projection, and this is what you
would use if your data layer was
missing a coordinate reference
system and you needed to give it
a projection.
But our data layers already have
a coordinate reference system.
We know what they are, we just
want to change this to a new
one.
And so we're going to use the
project tool.
So click on the project tool to
open up the tool window.
So what this tool is going to do
is it's going to create a new
layer which is our sighting
points, but in the new
coordinate reference system.
So let's put in our parameters
for this tool.
The first thing we have is our
input data set.
This is going to be our sighting
points.
So drag these across and put
them in there.
And we can see that underneath
it's telling us what is the
current coordinate reference
system of that data layer.
And then the next thing we need
to do is set a output data set
as this is creating a new data
layer.
So we need to say where we're
going to save it to and what
we're going to name it.
So let's click on the folder
icon to the right of this
section and let's save it in our
Geo database.
So navigate to where that Geo
database is, open it up, and now
we can name the new data layer
so we can call it projected
points
so it's nice and clear that
these are the points with the
new UTM Coordinate Reference
System.
Our output coordinate system is
the one that we want to change
it to.
So we can click on the globe
icon to the right of this and we
can search in the UTM projected
coordinate system or search
through the relevant tabs to get
there.
But a quick way to do this is we
can click on the drop down box
and choose the data layer that
has the coordinate system that
we want to change it to.
So we know Ziama protected area
is already in the UTM coordinate
system.
So we can choose this, and now
we can see that it's
automatically put in the
coordinate reference system that
we're after.
So we don't need to worry about
the next section.
We can just hit run and this is
going to project our data.
And now we can see our projected
points layer in our contents.
So we can delete the other
points layer with the wrong
coordinate reference system just
by right clicking and clicking
remove.
And now we're going to project
the two protected areas that are
in the wrong coordinate
reference system.
So that's Wonegizi and Wologizi.
So if we start with Wonegizi, we
can drag this across into the
Input data Set section of our
projection tool.
And again, we can see that it's
showing us what the current
coordinate system of that layer
is.
And now let's go and choose
where we want to save the new
layer into.
So that's going to be our
Geodatabase and we'll call this
projected Wonegizi, Click save.
And now we've got our output
coordinate system already there.
So we can run it.
And once that comes up in our
contents, we can delete the old
layer and just leave the
projected Wonegizi.
And now we'll do the same for
Wologizi as well.
So we'll drag this across as our
input.
We can see the current
coordinate system, let's save it
into our Geodatabase, name it
projected Wologizi, and the
coordinate system is there
already.
So we just need to hit run and
then delete the original
Wologizi protected area layer.
So now all of our data layers
are in the same projected
coordinate system.
We need to make sure that our
map is also in the same system.
So we can right click on the map
in the contents pane, go into
its properties, and we'll go
into the Coordinate System tab.
In the box under where it says
Current XY, we can see it's
current coordinate system, so
it's not in the UTM zone 29 N
that we want.
So what we can do is we could
either look through all the
different coordinate systems
here, looking in the relevant
tabs, or we can search in our
some of the words from our
coordinate system to narrow it
down.
So we'll type in UTM zone 29 N
and then we know that we need to
go in the Projected Coordinate
System tab, we need to go in the
UTM tab, and then it's the WGS
1984.
So we go in here and it's 29 N
so we know it's in the northern
hemisphere.
And we've got two options here.
It's not the complex 1, so we
need to choose the bottom one
which is just the WGS 1984 UTM
Zone 29 N and click OK and
that's how to project data
layers and your map in Arcgis
Pro.
This is really important if you
want to create accurate maps or
do accurate analysis in
geoprocessing.